man/docker-exec.1.md, before:

% DOCKER(1) Docker User Manuals
% Docker Community
% JUNE 2014
# NAME
docker-exec - Run a command in a running container

# SYNOPSIS
**docker exec**
[**-d**|**--detach**]
[**--help**]
[**-i**|**--interactive**]
[**--privileged**]
[**-t**|**--tty**]
[**-u**|**--user**[=*USER*]]
CONTAINER COMMAND [ARG...]

# DESCRIPTION

Run a process in a running container.

The command started using `docker exec` will only run while the container's primary
process (`PID 1`) is running, and will not be restarted if the container is restarted.

If the container is paused, then the `docker exec` command will wait until the
container is unpaused, and then run

# OPTIONS
**-d**, **--detach**=*true*|*false*
   Detached mode: run command in the background. The default is *false*.

**--help**
  Print usage statement

**-i**, **--interactive**=*true*|*false*
   Keep STDIN open even if not attached. The default is *false*.

**--privileged**=*true*|*false*
   Give the process extended [Linux capabilities](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/capabilities.7.html)
when running in a container. The default is *false*.

   Without this flag, the process run by `docker exec` in a running container has
the same capabilities as the container, which may be limited. Set
`--privileged` to give all capabilities to the process.

**-t**, **--tty**=*true*|*false*
   Allocate a pseudo-TTY. The default is *false*.

**-u**, **--user**=""
   Sets the username or UID used and optionally the groupname or GID for the specified command.

   The followings examples are all valid:
   --user [user | user:group | uid | uid:gid | user:gid | uid:group ]

   Without this argument the command will be run as root in the container.

The **-t** option is incompatible with a redirection of the docker client
standard input.

# HISTORY
November 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit <SvenDowideit@home.org.au>

Commit message:

Implement configurable detach key
Implement configurable detach keys (for `attach`, exec`, `run` and
`start`) using the client-side configuration

- Adds a `--detach-keys` flag to `attach`, `exec`, `run` and `start`
  commands.
- Adds a new configuration field (in `~/.docker/config.json`) to
  configure the default escape keys for docker client.

Signed-off-by: Vincent Demeester <vincent@sbr.pm>
Signed-off-by: Cedric Davies <cedricda@ntdev.microsoft.com>

man/docker-exec.1.md, after:

% DOCKER(1) Docker User Manuals
% Docker Community
% JUNE 2014
# NAME
docker-exec - Run a command in a running container

# SYNOPSIS
**docker exec**
[**-d**|**--detach**]
[**--detach-keys**[=*[]*]]
[**--help**]
[**-i**|**--interactive**]
[**--privileged**]
[**-t**|**--tty**]
[**-u**|**--user**[=*USER*]]
CONTAINER COMMAND [ARG...]

# DESCRIPTION

Run a process in a running container.

The command started using `docker exec` will only run while the container's primary
process (`PID 1`) is running, and will not be restarted if the container is restarted.

If the container is paused, then the `docker exec` command will wait until the
container is unpaused, and then run

# OPTIONS
**-d**, **--detach**=*true*|*false*
    Override the key sequence for detaching a container. Format is a single character `[a-Z]` or `ctrl-<value>` where `<value>` is one of: `a-z`, `@`, `^`, `[`, `,` or `_`.

**--detach-keys**=""
  Define the key sequence which detaches the container.

**--help**
  Print usage statement

**-i**, **--interactive**=*true*|*false*
   Keep STDIN open even if not attached. The default is *false*.

**--privileged**=*true*|*false*
   Give the process extended [Linux capabilities](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/capabilities.7.html)
when running in a container. The default is *false*.

   Without this flag, the process run by `docker exec` in a running container has
the same capabilities as the container, which may be limited. Set
`--privileged` to give all capabilities to the process.

**-t**, **--tty**=*true*|*false*
   Allocate a pseudo-TTY. The default is *false*.

**-u**, **--user**=""
   Sets the username or UID used and optionally the groupname or GID for the specified command.

   The followings examples are all valid:
   --user [user | user:group | uid | uid:gid | user:gid | uid:group ]

   Without this argument the command will be run as root in the container.

The **-t** option is incompatible with a redirection of the docker client
standard input.

# HISTORY
November 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit <SvenDowideit@home.org.au>
