man/docker-network-inspect.1.md, before:

% DOCKER(1) Docker User Manuals
% Docker Community
% OCT 2015
# NAME
docker-network-inspect - inspect a network

# SYNOPSIS
**docker network inspect**
[**--help**]
NETWORK [NETWORK...]

# DESCRIPTION

Returns information about one or more networks. By default, this command renders all results in a JSON object. For example, if you connect two containers to a network:

```bash
$ sudo docker run -itd --name=container1 busybox
f2870c98fd504370fb86e59f32cd0753b1ac9b69b7d80566ffc7192a82b3ed27

$ sudo docker run -itd --name=container2 busybox
bda12f8922785d1f160be70736f26c1e331ab8aaf8ed8d56728508f2e2fd4727
```

The `network inspect` command shows the containers, by id, in its results.

```bash
$ sudo docker network inspect bridge
[
  {
      "name": "bridge",
      "id": "7fca4eb8c647e57e9d46c32714271e0c3f8bf8d17d346629e2820547b2d90039",
      "driver": "bridge",
      "containers": {
          "bda12f8922785d1f160be70736f26c1e331ab8aaf8ed8d56728508f2e2fd4727": {
              "endpoint": "e0ac95934f803d7e36384a2029b8d1eeb56cb88727aa2e8b7edfeebaa6dfd758",
              "mac_address": "02:42:ac:11:00:03",
              "ipv4_address": "172.17.0.3/16",
              "ipv6_address": ""
          },
          "f2870c98fd504370fb86e59f32cd0753b1ac9b69b7d80566ffc7192a82b3ed27": {
              "endpoint": "31de280881d2a774345bbfb1594159ade4ae4024ebfb1320cb74a30225f6a8ae",
              "mac_address": "02:42:ac:11:00:02",
              "ipv4_address": "172.17.0.2/16",
              "ipv6_address": ""
          }
      }
  }
]
```


# OPTIONS

**--help**
  Print usage statement

# HISTORY
OCT 2015, created by Mary Anthony <mary@docker.com>

Commit message:

Add format flag to network inspect
…for consistency as docker inspect and docker volume inspect supports it too

Signed-off-by: Vincent Demeester <vincent@sbr.pm>

man/docker-network-inspect.1.md, after:

% DOCKER(1) Docker User Manuals
% Docker Community
% OCT 2015
# NAME
docker-network-inspect - inspect a network

# SYNOPSIS
**docker network inspect**
[**-f**|**--format**[=*FORMAT*]]
[**--help**]
NETWORK [NETWORK...]

# DESCRIPTION

Returns information about one or more networks. By default, this command renders all results in a JSON object. For example, if you connect two containers to a network:

```bash
$ sudo docker run -itd --name=container1 busybox
f2870c98fd504370fb86e59f32cd0753b1ac9b69b7d80566ffc7192a82b3ed27

$ sudo docker run -itd --name=container2 busybox
bda12f8922785d1f160be70736f26c1e331ab8aaf8ed8d56728508f2e2fd4727
```

The `network inspect` command shows the containers, by id, in its
results. You can specify an alternate format to execute a given
template for each result. Go's
[text/template](http://golang.org/pkg/text/template/) package
describes all the details of the format.

```bash
$ sudo docker network inspect bridge
[
  {
      "name": "bridge",
      "id": "7fca4eb8c647e57e9d46c32714271e0c3f8bf8d17d346629e2820547b2d90039",
      "driver": "bridge",
      "containers": {
          "bda12f8922785d1f160be70736f26c1e331ab8aaf8ed8d56728508f2e2fd4727": {
              "endpoint": "e0ac95934f803d7e36384a2029b8d1eeb56cb88727aa2e8b7edfeebaa6dfd758",
              "mac_address": "02:42:ac:11:00:03",
              "ipv4_address": "172.17.0.3/16",
              "ipv6_address": ""
          },
          "f2870c98fd504370fb86e59f32cd0753b1ac9b69b7d80566ffc7192a82b3ed27": {
              "endpoint": "31de280881d2a774345bbfb1594159ade4ae4024ebfb1320cb74a30225f6a8ae",
              "mac_address": "02:42:ac:11:00:02",
              "ipv4_address": "172.17.0.2/16",
              "ipv6_address": ""
          }
      }
  }
]
```


# OPTIONS
**-f**, **--format**=""
  Format the output using the given go template.

**--help**
  Print usage statement

# HISTORY
OCT 2015, created by Mary Anthony <mary@docker.com>
