hack/integration-cli-on-swarm/README.md, before:

# Integration Testing on Swarm

IT on Swarm allows you to execute integration test in parallel across a Docker Swarm cluster

## Architecture

### Master service

  - Works as a funker caller
  - Calls a worker funker (`-worker-service`) with a chunk of `-check.f` filter strings (passed as a file via `-input` flag, typically `/mnt/input`)

### Worker service

  - Works as a funker callee
  - Executes an equivalent of `TESTFLAGS=-check.f TestFoo|TestBar|TestBaz ... make test-integration-cli` using the bind-mounted API socket (`docker.sock`)

### Client

  - Controls master and workers via `docker stack`
  - No need to have a local daemon

Typically, the master and workers are supposed to be running on a cloud environment,
while the client is supposed to be running on a laptop, e.g. Docker for Mac/Windows.

## Requirement

  - Docker daemon 1.13 or later
  - Private registry for distributed execution with multiple nodes

## Usage

### Step 1: Prepare images

    $ make build-integration-cli-on-swarm

Following environment variables are known to work in this step:

 - `BUILDFLAGS`
 - `DOCKER_INCREMENTAL_BINARY`

### Step 2: Execute tests

    $ ./hack/integration-cli-on-swarm/integration-cli-on-swarm -replicas 40 -push-worker-image YOUR_REGISTRY.EXAMPLE.COM/integration-cli-worker:latest 

Following environment variables are known to work in this step:

 - `DOCKER_GRAPHDRIVER`
 - `DOCKER_EXPERIMENTAL`

#### Flags

Basic flags:

 - `-replicas N`: the number of worker service replicas. i.e. degree of parallelism.
 - `-chunks N`: the number of chunks. By default, `chunks` == `replicas`.
 - `-push-worker-image REGISTRY/IMAGE:TAG`: push the worker image to the registry. Note that if you have only single node and hence you do not need a private registry, you do not need to specify `-push-worker-image`.

Experimental flags for mitigating makespan nonuniformity:

 - `-shuffle`: Shuffle the test filter strings

Flags for debugging IT on Swarm itself:

 - `-rand-seed N`: the random seed. This flag is useful for deterministic replaying. By default(0), the timestamp is used.
 - `-filters-file FILE`: the file contains `-check.f` strings. By default, the file is automatically generated.
 - `-dry-run`: skip the actual workload
 - `keep-executor`: do not auto-remove executor containers, which is used for running privileged programs on Swarm

Commit message:

integration-cli-on-swarm/README.md: add a note about Docker->Moby
Signed-off-by: Akihiro Suda <suda.akihiro@lab.ntt.co.jp>

hack/integration-cli-on-swarm/README.md, after:

# Integration Testing on Swarm

IT on Swarm allows you to execute integration test in parallel across a Docker Swarm cluster

## Architecture

### Master service

  - Works as a funker caller
  - Calls a worker funker (`-worker-service`) with a chunk of `-check.f` filter strings (passed as a file via `-input` flag, typically `/mnt/input`)

### Worker service

  - Works as a funker callee
  - Executes an equivalent of `TESTFLAGS=-check.f TestFoo|TestBar|TestBaz ... make test-integration-cli` using the bind-mounted API socket (`docker.sock`)

### Client

  - Controls master and workers via `docker stack`
  - No need to have a local daemon

Typically, the master and workers are supposed to be running on a cloud environment,
while the client is supposed to be running on a laptop, e.g. Docker for Mac/Windows.

## Requirement

  - Docker daemon 1.13 or later
  - Private registry for distributed execution with multiple nodes

## Usage

### Step 1: Prepare images

    $ make build-integration-cli-on-swarm

Following environment variables are known to work in this step:

 - `BUILDFLAGS`
 - `DOCKER_INCREMENTAL_BINARY`

Note: during the transition into Moby Project, you might need to create a symbolic link `$GOPATH/src/github.com/docker/docker` to `$GOPATH/src/github.com/moby/moby`. 

### Step 2: Execute tests

    $ ./hack/integration-cli-on-swarm/integration-cli-on-swarm -replicas 40 -push-worker-image YOUR_REGISTRY.EXAMPLE.COM/integration-cli-worker:latest 

Following environment variables are known to work in this step:

 - `DOCKER_GRAPHDRIVER`
 - `DOCKER_EXPERIMENTAL`

#### Flags

Basic flags:

 - `-replicas N`: the number of worker service replicas. i.e. degree of parallelism.
 - `-chunks N`: the number of chunks. By default, `chunks` == `replicas`.
 - `-push-worker-image REGISTRY/IMAGE:TAG`: push the worker image to the registry. Note that if you have only single node and hence you do not need a private registry, you do not need to specify `-push-worker-image`.

Experimental flags for mitigating makespan nonuniformity:

 - `-shuffle`: Shuffle the test filter strings

Flags for debugging IT on Swarm itself:

 - `-rand-seed N`: the random seed. This flag is useful for deterministic replaying. By default(0), the timestamp is used.
 - `-filters-file FILE`: the file contains `-check.f` strings. By default, the file is automatically generated.
 - `-dry-run`: skip the actual workload
 - `keep-executor`: do not auto-remove executor containers, which is used for running privileged programs on Swarm
