docs/extend/config.md, before:

---
title: "Plugin config"
description: "How develop and use a plugin with the managed plugin system"
keywords: "API, Usage, plugins, documentation, developer"
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/docker Github
     repository at https://github.com/docker/docker/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->


# Plugin Config Version 1 of Plugin V2

This document outlines the format of the V0 plugin configuration. The plugin
config described herein was introduced in the Docker daemon in the [v1.12.0
release](https://github.com/docker/docker/commit/f37117045c5398fd3dca8016ea8ca0cb47e7312b).

Plugin configs describe the various constituents of a docker plugin. Plugin
configs can be serialized to JSON format with the following media types:

Config Type  | Media Type
------------- | -------------
config  | "application/vnd.docker.plugin.v1+json"


## *Config* Field Descriptions

Config provides the base accessible fields for working with V0 plugin format
 in the registry.

- **`description`** *string*

	description of the plugin

- **`documentation`** *string*

  	link to the documentation about the plugin

- **`interface`** *PluginInterface*

   interface implemented by the plugins, struct consisting of the following fields

    - **`types`** *string array*

      types indicate what interface(s) the plugin currently implements.

      currently supported:

      	- **docker.volumedriver/1.0**

      	- **docker.authz/1.0**

    - **`socket`** *string*

      socket is the name of the socket the engine should use to communicate with the plugins.
      the socket will be created in `/run/docker/plugins`.


- **`entrypoint`** *string array*

   entrypoint of the plugin, see [`ENTRYPOINT`](../reference/builder.md#entrypoint)

- **`workdir`** *string*

   workdir of the plugin, see [`WORKDIR`](../reference/builder.md#workdir)

- **`network`** *PluginNetwork*

   network of the plugin, struct consisting of the following fields

    - **`type`** *string*

      network type.

      currently supported:

      	- **bridge**
      	- **host**
      	- **none**

- **`mounts`** *PluginMount array*

   mount of the plugin, struct consisting of the following fields, see [`MOUNTS`](https://github.com/opencontainers/runtime-spec/blob/master/config.md#mounts)

    - **`name`** *string*

	  name of the mount.

    - **`description`** *string*

      description of the mount.

    - **`source`** *string*

	  source of the mount.

    - **`destination`** *string*

	  destination of the mount.

    - **`type`** *string*

      mount type.

    - **`options`** *string array*

	  options of the mount.

- **`propagatedMount`** *string*

   path to be mounted as rshared, so that mounts under that path are visible to docker. This is useful for volume plugins.

- **`env`** *PluginEnv array*

   env of the plugin, struct consisting of the following fields

    - **`name`** *string*

	  name of the env.

    - **`description`** *string*

      description of the env.

    - **`value`** *string*

	  value of the env.

- **`args`** *PluginArgs*

   args of the plugin, struct consisting of the following fields

    - **`name`** *string*

	  name of the args.

    - **`description`** *string*

      description of the args.

    - **`value`** *string array*

	  values of the args.

- **`linux`** *PluginLinux*

    - **`capabilities`** *string array*

          capabilities of the plugin (*Linux only*), see list [`here`](https://github.com/opencontainers/runc/blob/master/libcontainer/SPEC.md#security)

    - **`allowAllDevices`** *boolean*

	If `/dev` is bind mounted from the host, and allowAllDevices is set to true, the plugin will have `rwm` access to all devices on the host.

    - **`devices`** *PluginDevice array*

          device of the plugin, (*Linux only*), struct consisting of the following fields, see [`DEVICES`](https://github.com/opencontainers/runtime-spec/blob/master/config-linux.md#devices)

          - **`name`** *string*

	      name of the device.

          - **`description`** *string*

              description of the device.

          - **`path`** *string*

              path of the device.

## Example Config

*Example showing the 'tiborvass/sample-volume-plugin' plugin config.*

```json
{
            "Args": {
                "Description": "",
                "Name": "",
                "Settable": null,
                "Value": null
            },
            "Description": "A sample volume plugin for Docker",
            "Documentation": "https://docs.docker.com/engine/extend/plugins/",
            "Entrypoint": [
                "/usr/bin/sample-volume-plugin",
                "/data"
            ],
            "Env": [
                {
                    "Description": "",
                    "Name": "DEBUG",
                    "Settable": [
                        "value"
                    ],
                    "Value": "0"
                }
            ],
            "Interface": {
                "Socket": "plugin.sock",
                "Types": [
                    "docker.volumedriver/1.0"
                ]
            },
            "Linux": {
                "Capabilities": null,
                "AllowAllDevices": false,
                "Devices": null
            },
            "Mounts": null,
            "Network": {
                "Type": ""
            },
            "PropagatedMount": "/data",
            "User": {},
            "Workdir": ""
}
```

Commit message:

Make propagated mount persist outside rootfs
This persists the "propagated mount" for plugins outside the main
rootfs. This enables `docker plugin upgrade` to not remove potentially
important data during upgrade rather than forcing plugin authors to hard
code a host path to persist data to.

Also migrates old plugins that have a propagated mount which is in the
rootfs on daemon startup.

Signed-off-by: Brian Goff <cpuguy83@gmail.com>
(cherry picked from commit e8307b868de9f19bb97f5cafcd727df5c5f501be)
Signed-off-by: Brian Goff <cpuguy83@gmail.com>

docs/extend/config.md, after:

---
title: "Plugin config"
description: "How develop and use a plugin with the managed plugin system"
keywords: "API, Usage, plugins, documentation, developer"
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/docker Github
     repository at https://github.com/docker/docker/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->


# Plugin Config Version 1 of Plugin V2

This document outlines the format of the V0 plugin configuration. The plugin
config described herein was introduced in the Docker daemon in the [v1.12.0
release](https://github.com/docker/docker/commit/f37117045c5398fd3dca8016ea8ca0cb47e7312b).

Plugin configs describe the various constituents of a docker plugin. Plugin
configs can be serialized to JSON format with the following media types:

Config Type  | Media Type
------------- | -------------
config  | "application/vnd.docker.plugin.v1+json"


## *Config* Field Descriptions

Config provides the base accessible fields for working with V0 plugin format
 in the registry.

- **`description`** *string*

	description of the plugin

- **`documentation`** *string*

  	link to the documentation about the plugin

- **`interface`** *PluginInterface*

   interface implemented by the plugins, struct consisting of the following fields

    - **`types`** *string array*

      types indicate what interface(s) the plugin currently implements.

      currently supported:

      	- **docker.volumedriver/1.0**

      	- **docker.authz/1.0**

    - **`socket`** *string*

      socket is the name of the socket the engine should use to communicate with the plugins.
      the socket will be created in `/run/docker/plugins`.


- **`entrypoint`** *string array*

   entrypoint of the plugin, see [`ENTRYPOINT`](../reference/builder.md#entrypoint)

- **`workdir`** *string*

   workdir of the plugin, see [`WORKDIR`](../reference/builder.md#workdir)

- **`network`** *PluginNetwork*

   network of the plugin, struct consisting of the following fields

    - **`type`** *string*

      network type.

      currently supported:

      	- **bridge**
      	- **host**
      	- **none**

- **`mounts`** *PluginMount array*

   mount of the plugin, struct consisting of the following fields, see [`MOUNTS`](https://github.com/opencontainers/runtime-spec/blob/master/config.md#mounts)

    - **`name`** *string*

	  name of the mount.

    - **`description`** *string*

      description of the mount.

    - **`source`** *string*

	  source of the mount.

    - **`destination`** *string*

	  destination of the mount.

    - **`type`** *string*

      mount type.

    - **`options`** *string array*

	  options of the mount.

- **`propagatedMount`** *string*

   path to be mounted as rshared, so that mounts under that path are visible to docker. This is useful for volume plugins.
   This path will be bind-mounted outisde of the plugin rootfs so it's contents
   are preserved on upgrade.

- **`env`** *PluginEnv array*

   env of the plugin, struct consisting of the following fields

    - **`name`** *string*

	  name of the env.

    - **`description`** *string*

      description of the env.

    - **`value`** *string*

	  value of the env.

- **`args`** *PluginArgs*

   args of the plugin, struct consisting of the following fields

    - **`name`** *string*

	  name of the args.

    - **`description`** *string*

      description of the args.

    - **`value`** *string array*

	  values of the args.

- **`linux`** *PluginLinux*

    - **`capabilities`** *string array*

          capabilities of the plugin (*Linux only*), see list [`here`](https://github.com/opencontainers/runc/blob/master/libcontainer/SPEC.md#security)

    - **`allowAllDevices`** *boolean*

	If `/dev` is bind mounted from the host, and allowAllDevices is set to true, the plugin will have `rwm` access to all devices on the host.

    - **`devices`** *PluginDevice array*

          device of the plugin, (*Linux only*), struct consisting of the following fields, see [`DEVICES`](https://github.com/opencontainers/runtime-spec/blob/master/config-linux.md#devices)

          - **`name`** *string*

	      name of the device.

          - **`description`** *string*

              description of the device.

          - **`path`** *string*

              path of the device.

## Example Config

*Example showing the 'tiborvass/sample-volume-plugin' plugin config.*

```json
{
            "Args": {
                "Description": "",
                "Name": "",
                "Settable": null,
                "Value": null
            },
            "Description": "A sample volume plugin for Docker",
            "Documentation": "https://docs.docker.com/engine/extend/plugins/",
            "Entrypoint": [
                "/usr/bin/sample-volume-plugin",
                "/data"
            ],
            "Env": [
                {
                    "Description": "",
                    "Name": "DEBUG",
                    "Settable": [
                        "value"
                    ],
                    "Value": "0"
                }
            ],
            "Interface": {
                "Socket": "plugin.sock",
                "Types": [
                    "docker.volumedriver/1.0"
                ]
            },
            "Linux": {
                "Capabilities": null,
                "AllowAllDevices": false,
                "Devices": null
            },
            "Mounts": null,
            "Network": {
                "Type": ""
            },
            "PropagatedMount": "/data",
            "User": {},
            "Workdir": ""
}
```
