docs/reference/commandline/create.md, before:

---
title: "create"
description: "The create command description and usage"
keywords: "docker, create, container"
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/docker Github
     repository at https://github.com/docker/docker/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->

# create

Creates a new container.

```markdown
Usage:  docker create [OPTIONS] IMAGE [COMMAND] [ARG...]

Create a new container

Options:
      --add-host value              Add a custom host-to-IP mapping (host:ip) (default [])
  -a, --attach value                Attach to STDIN, STDOUT or STDERR (default [])
      --blkio-weight value          Block IO (relative weight), between 10 and 1000
      --blkio-weight-device value   Block IO weight (relative device weight) (default [])
      --cap-add value               Add Linux capabilities (default [])
      --cap-drop value              Drop Linux capabilities (default [])
      --cgroup-parent string        Optional parent cgroup for the container
      --cidfile string              Write the container ID to the file
      --cpu-count int               The number of CPUs available for execution by the container.
                                    Windows daemon only. On Windows Server containers, this is
                                    approximated as a percentage of total CPU usage.
      --cpu-percent int             CPU percent (Windows only)
      --cpu-period int              Limit CPU CFS (Completely Fair Scheduler) period
      --cpu-quota int               Limit CPU CFS (Completely Fair Scheduler) quota
  -c, --cpu-shares int              CPU shares (relative weight)
      --cpus NanoCPUs               Number of CPUs (default 0.000)
      --cpu-rt-period int           Limit the CPU real-time period in microseconds
      --cpu-rt-runtime int          Limit the CPU real-time runtime in microseconds
      --cpuset-cpus string          CPUs in which to allow execution (0-3, 0,1)
      --cpuset-mems string          MEMs in which to allow execution (0-3, 0,1)
      --device value                Add a host device to the container (default [])
      --device-read-bps value       Limit read rate (bytes per second) from a device (default [])
      --device-read-iops value      Limit read rate (IO per second) from a device (default [])
      --device-write-bps value      Limit write rate (bytes per second) to a device (default [])
      --device-write-iops value     Limit write rate (IO per second) to a device (default [])
      --disable-content-trust       Skip image verification (default true)
      --dns value                   Set custom DNS servers (default [])
      --dns-option value            Set DNS options (default [])
      --dns-search value            Set custom DNS search domains (default [])
      --entrypoint string           Overwrite the default ENTRYPOINT of the image
  -e, --env value                   Set environment variables (default [])
      --env-file value              Read in a file of environment variables (default [])
      --expose value                Expose a port or a range of ports (default [])
      --group-add value             Add additional groups to join (default [])
      --health-cmd string           Command to run to check health
      --health-interval duration    Time between running the check (ns|us|ms|s|m|h) (default 0s)
      --health-retries int          Consecutive failures needed to report unhealthy
      --health-timeout duration     Maximum time to allow one check to run (ns|us|ms|s|m|h) (default 0s)
      --help                        Print usage
  -h, --hostname string             Container host name
  -i, --interactive                 Keep STDIN open even if not attached
      --io-maxbandwidth string      Maximum IO bandwidth limit for the system drive (Windows only)
      --io-maxiops uint             Maximum IOps limit for the system drive (Windows only)
      --ip string                   IPv4 address (e.g., 172.30.100.104)
      --ip6 string                  IPv6 address (e.g., 2001:db8::33)
      --ipc string                  IPC namespace to use
      --isolation string            Container isolation technology
      --kernel-memory string        Kernel memory limit
  -l, --label value                 Set meta data on a container (default [])
      --label-file value            Read in a line delimited file of labels (default [])
      --link value                  Add link to another container (default [])
      --link-local-ip value         Container IPv4/IPv6 link-local addresses (default [])
      --log-driver string           Logging driver for the container
      --log-opt value               Log driver options (default [])
      --mac-address string          Container MAC address (e.g., 92:d0:c6:0a:29:33)
  -m, --memory string               Memory limit
      --memory-reservation string   Memory soft limit
      --memory-swap string          Swap limit equal to memory plus swap: '-1' to enable unlimited swap
      --memory-swappiness int       Tune container memory swappiness (0 to 100) (default -1)
      --name string                 Assign a name to the container
      --network-alias value         Add network-scoped alias for the container (default [])
      --network string              Connect a container to a network (default "default")
                                    'bridge': create a network stack on the default Docker bridge
                                    'none': no networking
                                    'container:<name|id>': reuse another container's network stack
                                    'host': use the Docker host network stack
                                    '<network-name>|<network-id>': connect to a user-defined network
      --no-healthcheck              Disable any container-specified HEALTHCHECK
      --oom-kill-disable            Disable OOM Killer
      --oom-score-adj int           Tune host's OOM preferences (-1000 to 1000)
      --pid string                  PID namespace to use
      --pids-limit int              Tune container pids limit (set -1 for unlimited), kernel >= 4.3
      --privileged                  Give extended privileges to this container
  -p, --publish value               Publish a container's port(s) to the host (default [])
  -P, --publish-all                 Publish all exposed ports to random ports
      --read-only                   Mount the container's root filesystem as read only
      --restart string              Restart policy to apply when a container exits (default "no")
                                    Possible values are: no, on-failure[:max-retry], always, unless-stopped
      --rm                          Automatically remove the container when it exits
      --runtime string              Runtime to use for this container
      --security-opt value          Security Options (default [])
      --shm-size string             Size of /dev/shm, default value is 64MB.
                                    The format is `<number><unit>`. `number` must be greater than `0`.
                                    Unit is optional and can be `b` (bytes), `k` (kilobytes), `m` (megabytes),
                                    or `g` (gigabytes). If you omit the unit, the system uses bytes.
      --stop-signal string          Signal to stop a container, SIGTERM by default (default "SIGTERM")
      --stop-timeout=10             Timeout (in seconds) to stop a container
      --storage-opt value           Storage driver options for the container (default [])
      --sysctl value                Sysctl options (default map[])
      --tmpfs value                 Mount a tmpfs directory (default [])
  -t, --tty                         Allocate a pseudo-TTY
      --ulimit value                Ulimit options (default [])
  -u, --user string                 Username or UID (format: <name|uid>[:<group|gid>])
      --userns string               User namespace to use
                                    'host': Use the Docker host user namespace
                                    '': Use the Docker daemon user namespace specified by `--userns-remap` option.
      --uts string                  UTS namespace to use
  -v, --volume value                Bind mount a volume (default []). The format
                                    is `[host-src:]container-dest[:<options>]`.
                                    The comma-delimited `options` are [rw|ro],
                                    [z|Z], [[r]shared|[r]slave|[r]private], and
                                    [nocopy]. The 'host-src' is an absolute path
                                    or a name value.
      --volume-driver string        Optional volume driver for the container
      --volumes-from value          Mount volumes from the specified container(s) (default [])
  -w, --workdir string              Working directory inside the container
```

The `docker create` command creates a writeable container layer over the
specified image and prepares it for running the specified command.  The
container ID is then printed to `STDOUT`.  This is similar to `docker run -d`
except the container is never started.  You can then use the
`docker start <container_id>` command to start the container at any point.

This is useful when you want to set up a container configuration ahead of time
so that it is ready to start when you need it. The initial status of the
new container is `created`.

Please see the [run command](run.md) section and the [Docker run reference](../run.md) for more details.

## Examples

    $ docker create -t -i fedora bash
    6d8af538ec541dd581ebc2a24153a28329acb5268abe5ef868c1f1a261221752
    $ docker start -a -i 6d8af538ec5
    bash-4.2#

As of v1.4.0 container volumes are initialized during the `docker create` phase
(i.e., `docker run` too). For example, this allows you to `create` the `data`
volume container, and then use it from another container:

    $ docker create -v /data --name data ubuntu
    240633dfbb98128fa77473d3d9018f6123b99c454b3251427ae190a7d951ad57
    $ docker run --rm --volumes-from data ubuntu ls -la /data
    total 8
    drwxr-xr-x  2 root root 4096 Dec  5 04:10 .
    drwxr-xr-x 48 root root 4096 Dec  5 04:11 ..

Similarly, `create` a host directory bind mounted volume container, which can
then be used from the subsequent container:

    $ docker create -v /home/docker:/docker --name docker ubuntu
    9aa88c08f319cd1e4515c3c46b0de7cc9aa75e878357b1e96f91e2c773029f03
    $ docker run --rm --volumes-from docker ubuntu ls -la /docker
    total 20
    drwxr-sr-x  5 1000 staff  180 Dec  5 04:00 .
    drwxr-xr-x 48 root root  4096 Dec  5 04:13 ..
    -rw-rw-r--  1 1000 staff 3833 Dec  5 04:01 .ash_history
    -rw-r--r--  1 1000 staff  446 Nov 28 11:51 .ashrc
    -rw-r--r--  1 1000 staff   25 Dec  5 04:00 .gitconfig
    drwxr-sr-x  3 1000 staff   60 Dec  1 03:28 .local
    -rw-r--r--  1 1000 staff  920 Nov 28 11:51 .profile
    drwx--S---  2 1000 staff  460 Dec  5 00:51 .ssh
    drwxr-xr-x 32 1000 staff 1140 Dec  5 04:01 docker

Set storage driver options per container.

    $ docker create -it --storage-opt size=120G fedora /bin/bash

This (size) will allow to set the container rootfs size to 120G at creation time.
This option is only available for the `devicemapper`, `btrfs`, `overlay2`,
`windowsfilter` and `zfs` graph drivers.
For the `devicemapper`, `btrfs`, `windowsfilter` and `zfs` graph drivers,
user cannot pass a size less than the Default BaseFS Size.
For the `overlay2` storage driver, the size option is only available if the
backing fs is `xfs` and mounted with the `pquota` mount option.
Under these conditions, user can pass any size less then the backing fs size.

### Specify isolation technology for container (--isolation)

This option is useful in situations where you are running Docker containers on
Windows. The `--isolation=<value>` option sets a container's isolation
technology. On Linux, the only supported is the `default` option which uses
Linux namespaces. On Microsoft Windows, you can specify these values:


| Value     | Description                                                                                                                                                   |
|-----------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `default` | Use the value specified by the Docker daemon's `--exec-opt` . If the `daemon` does not specify an isolation technology, Microsoft Windows uses `process` as its default value if the
daemon is running on Windows server, or `hyperv` if running on Windows client.  |
| `process` | Namespace isolation only.                                                                                                                                     |
| `hyperv`   | Hyper-V hypervisor partition-based isolation.                                                                                                                  |

Specifying the `--isolation` flag without a value is the same as setting `--isolation="default"`.

Commit message:

Add docs for `run|create --init|--init-path`
Signed-off-by: Harald Albers <github@albersweb.de>

docs/reference/commandline/create.md, after:

---
title: "create"
description: "The create command description and usage"
keywords: "docker, create, container"
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/docker Github
     repository at https://github.com/docker/docker/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->

# create

Creates a new container.

```markdown
Usage:  docker create [OPTIONS] IMAGE [COMMAND] [ARG...]

Create a new container

Options:
      --add-host value              Add a custom host-to-IP mapping (host:ip) (default [])
  -a, --attach value                Attach to STDIN, STDOUT or STDERR (default [])
      --blkio-weight value          Block IO (relative weight), between 10 and 1000
      --blkio-weight-device value   Block IO weight (relative device weight) (default [])
      --cap-add value               Add Linux capabilities (default [])
      --cap-drop value              Drop Linux capabilities (default [])
      --cgroup-parent string        Optional parent cgroup for the container
      --cidfile string              Write the container ID to the file
      --cpu-count int               The number of CPUs available for execution by the container.
                                    Windows daemon only. On Windows Server containers, this is
                                    approximated as a percentage of total CPU usage.
      --cpu-percent int             CPU percent (Windows only)
      --cpu-period int              Limit CPU CFS (Completely Fair Scheduler) period
      --cpu-quota int               Limit CPU CFS (Completely Fair Scheduler) quota
  -c, --cpu-shares int              CPU shares (relative weight)
      --cpus NanoCPUs               Number of CPUs (default 0.000)
      --cpu-rt-period int           Limit the CPU real-time period in microseconds
      --cpu-rt-runtime int          Limit the CPU real-time runtime in microseconds
      --cpuset-cpus string          CPUs in which to allow execution (0-3, 0,1)
      --cpuset-mems string          MEMs in which to allow execution (0-3, 0,1)
      --device value                Add a host device to the container (default [])
      --device-read-bps value       Limit read rate (bytes per second) from a device (default [])
      --device-read-iops value      Limit read rate (IO per second) from a device (default [])
      --device-write-bps value      Limit write rate (bytes per second) to a device (default [])
      --device-write-iops value     Limit write rate (IO per second) to a device (default [])
      --disable-content-trust       Skip image verification (default true)
      --dns value                   Set custom DNS servers (default [])
      --dns-option value            Set DNS options (default [])
      --dns-search value            Set custom DNS search domains (default [])
      --entrypoint string           Overwrite the default ENTRYPOINT of the image
  -e, --env value                   Set environment variables (default [])
      --env-file value              Read in a file of environment variables (default [])
      --expose value                Expose a port or a range of ports (default [])
      --group-add value             Add additional groups to join (default [])
      --health-cmd string           Command to run to check health
      --health-interval duration    Time between running the check (ns|us|ms|s|m|h) (default 0s)
      --health-retries int          Consecutive failures needed to report unhealthy
      --health-timeout duration     Maximum time to allow one check to run (ns|us|ms|s|m|h) (default 0s)
      --help                        Print usage
  -h, --hostname string             Container host name
      --init                        Run an init inside the container that forwards signals and reaps processes
      --init-path string            Path to the docker-init binary
  -i, --interactive                 Keep STDIN open even if not attached
      --io-maxbandwidth string      Maximum IO bandwidth limit for the system drive (Windows only)
      --io-maxiops uint             Maximum IOps limit for the system drive (Windows only)
      --ip string                   IPv4 address (e.g., 172.30.100.104)
      --ip6 string                  IPv6 address (e.g., 2001:db8::33)
      --ipc string                  IPC namespace to use
      --isolation string            Container isolation technology
      --kernel-memory string        Kernel memory limit
  -l, --label value                 Set meta data on a container (default [])
      --label-file value            Read in a line delimited file of labels (default [])
      --link value                  Add link to another container (default [])
      --link-local-ip value         Container IPv4/IPv6 link-local addresses (default [])
      --log-driver string           Logging driver for the container
      --log-opt value               Log driver options (default [])
      --mac-address string          Container MAC address (e.g., 92:d0:c6:0a:29:33)
  -m, --memory string               Memory limit
      --memory-reservation string   Memory soft limit
      --memory-swap string          Swap limit equal to memory plus swap: '-1' to enable unlimited swap
      --memory-swappiness int       Tune container memory swappiness (0 to 100) (default -1)
      --name string                 Assign a name to the container
      --network-alias value         Add network-scoped alias for the container (default [])
      --network string              Connect a container to a network (default "default")
                                    'bridge': create a network stack on the default Docker bridge
                                    'none': no networking
                                    'container:<name|id>': reuse another container's network stack
                                    'host': use the Docker host network stack
                                    '<network-name>|<network-id>': connect to a user-defined network
      --no-healthcheck              Disable any container-specified HEALTHCHECK
      --oom-kill-disable            Disable OOM Killer
      --oom-score-adj int           Tune host's OOM preferences (-1000 to 1000)
      --pid string                  PID namespace to use
      --pids-limit int              Tune container pids limit (set -1 for unlimited), kernel >= 4.3
      --privileged                  Give extended privileges to this container
  -p, --publish value               Publish a container's port(s) to the host (default [])
  -P, --publish-all                 Publish all exposed ports to random ports
      --read-only                   Mount the container's root filesystem as read only
      --restart string              Restart policy to apply when a container exits (default "no")
                                    Possible values are: no, on-failure[:max-retry], always, unless-stopped
      --rm                          Automatically remove the container when it exits
      --runtime string              Runtime to use for this container
      --security-opt value          Security Options (default [])
      --shm-size string             Size of /dev/shm, default value is 64MB.
                                    The format is `<number><unit>`. `number` must be greater than `0`.
                                    Unit is optional and can be `b` (bytes), `k` (kilobytes), `m` (megabytes),
                                    or `g` (gigabytes). If you omit the unit, the system uses bytes.
      --stop-signal string          Signal to stop a container, SIGTERM by default (default "SIGTERM")
      --stop-timeout=10             Timeout (in seconds) to stop a container
      --storage-opt value           Storage driver options for the container (default [])
      --sysctl value                Sysctl options (default map[])
      --tmpfs value                 Mount a tmpfs directory (default [])
  -t, --tty                         Allocate a pseudo-TTY
      --ulimit value                Ulimit options (default [])
  -u, --user string                 Username or UID (format: <name|uid>[:<group|gid>])
      --userns string               User namespace to use
                                    'host': Use the Docker host user namespace
                                    '': Use the Docker daemon user namespace specified by `--userns-remap` option.
      --uts string                  UTS namespace to use
  -v, --volume value                Bind mount a volume (default []). The format
                                    is `[host-src:]container-dest[:<options>]`.
                                    The comma-delimited `options` are [rw|ro],
                                    [z|Z], [[r]shared|[r]slave|[r]private], and
                                    [nocopy]. The 'host-src' is an absolute path
                                    or a name value.
      --volume-driver string        Optional volume driver for the container
      --volumes-from value          Mount volumes from the specified container(s) (default [])
  -w, --workdir string              Working directory inside the container
```

The `docker create` command creates a writeable container layer over the
specified image and prepares it for running the specified command.  The
container ID is then printed to `STDOUT`.  This is similar to `docker run -d`
except the container is never started.  You can then use the
`docker start <container_id>` command to start the container at any point.

This is useful when you want to set up a container configuration ahead of time
so that it is ready to start when you need it. The initial status of the
new container is `created`.

Please see the [run command](run.md) section and the [Docker run reference](../run.md) for more details.

## Examples

    $ docker create -t -i fedora bash
    6d8af538ec541dd581ebc2a24153a28329acb5268abe5ef868c1f1a261221752
    $ docker start -a -i 6d8af538ec5
    bash-4.2#

As of v1.4.0 container volumes are initialized during the `docker create` phase
(i.e., `docker run` too). For example, this allows you to `create` the `data`
volume container, and then use it from another container:

    $ docker create -v /data --name data ubuntu
    240633dfbb98128fa77473d3d9018f6123b99c454b3251427ae190a7d951ad57
    $ docker run --rm --volumes-from data ubuntu ls -la /data
    total 8
    drwxr-xr-x  2 root root 4096 Dec  5 04:10 .
    drwxr-xr-x 48 root root 4096 Dec  5 04:11 ..

Similarly, `create` a host directory bind mounted volume container, which can
then be used from the subsequent container:

    $ docker create -v /home/docker:/docker --name docker ubuntu
    9aa88c08f319cd1e4515c3c46b0de7cc9aa75e878357b1e96f91e2c773029f03
    $ docker run --rm --volumes-from docker ubuntu ls -la /docker
    total 20
    drwxr-sr-x  5 1000 staff  180 Dec  5 04:00 .
    drwxr-xr-x 48 root root  4096 Dec  5 04:13 ..
    -rw-rw-r--  1 1000 staff 3833 Dec  5 04:01 .ash_history
    -rw-r--r--  1 1000 staff  446 Nov 28 11:51 .ashrc
    -rw-r--r--  1 1000 staff   25 Dec  5 04:00 .gitconfig
    drwxr-sr-x  3 1000 staff   60 Dec  1 03:28 .local
    -rw-r--r--  1 1000 staff  920 Nov 28 11:51 .profile
    drwx--S---  2 1000 staff  460 Dec  5 00:51 .ssh
    drwxr-xr-x 32 1000 staff 1140 Dec  5 04:01 docker

Set storage driver options per container.

    $ docker create -it --storage-opt size=120G fedora /bin/bash

This (size) will allow to set the container rootfs size to 120G at creation time.
This option is only available for the `devicemapper`, `btrfs`, `overlay2`,
`windowsfilter` and `zfs` graph drivers.
For the `devicemapper`, `btrfs`, `windowsfilter` and `zfs` graph drivers,
user cannot pass a size less than the Default BaseFS Size.
For the `overlay2` storage driver, the size option is only available if the
backing fs is `xfs` and mounted with the `pquota` mount option.
Under these conditions, user can pass any size less then the backing fs size.

### Specify isolation technology for container (--isolation)

This option is useful in situations where you are running Docker containers on
Windows. The `--isolation=<value>` option sets a container's isolation
technology. On Linux, the only supported is the `default` option which uses
Linux namespaces. On Microsoft Windows, you can specify these values:


| Value     | Description                                                                                                                                                   |
|-----------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `default` | Use the value specified by the Docker daemon's `--exec-opt` . If the `daemon` does not specify an isolation technology, Microsoft Windows uses `process` as its default value if the
daemon is running on Windows server, or `hyperv` if running on Windows client.  |
| `process` | Namespace isolation only.                                                                                                                                     |
| `hyperv`   | Hyper-V hypervisor partition-based isolation.                                                                                                                  |

Specifying the `--isolation` flag without a value is the same as setting `--isolation="default"`.
