docs/reference/commandline/network_ls.md, before:

---
title: "network ls"
description: "The network ls command description and usage"
keywords: "network, list, user-defined"
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/docker Github
     repository at https://github.com/docker/docker/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->

# docker network ls

```markdown
Usage:  docker network ls [OPTIONS]

List networks

Aliases:
  ls, list

Options:
  -f, --filter filter   Provide filter values (e.g. 'driver=bridge')
      --format string   Pretty-print networks using a Go template
      --help            Print usage
      --no-trunc        Do not truncate the output
  -q, --quiet           Only display network IDs
```

Lists all the networks the Engine `daemon` knows about. This includes the
networks that span across multiple hosts in a cluster, for example:

```bash
$ sudo docker network ls
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER          SCOPE
7fca4eb8c647        bridge              bridge          local
9f904ee27bf5        none                null            local
cf03ee007fb4        host                host            local
78b03ee04fc4        multi-host          overlay         swarm
```

Use the `--no-trunc` option to display the full network id:

```bash
$ docker network ls --no-trunc
NETWORK ID                                                         NAME                DRIVER           SCOPE
18a2866682b85619a026c81b98a5e375bd33e1b0936a26cc497c283d27bae9b3   none                null             local
c288470c46f6c8949c5f7e5099b5b7947b07eabe8d9a27d79a9cbf111adcbf47   host                host             local
7b369448dccbf865d397c8d2be0cda7cf7edc6b0945f77d2529912ae917a0185   bridge              bridge           local
95e74588f40db048e86320c6526440c504650a1ff3e9f7d60a497c4d2163e5bd   foo                 bridge           local
63d1ff1f77b07ca51070a8c227e962238358bd310bde1529cf62e6c307ade161   dev                 bridge           local
```

## Filtering

The filtering flag (`-f` or `--filter`) format is a `key=value` pair. If there
is more than one filter, then pass multiple flags (e.g. `--filter "foo=bar" --filter "bif=baz"`).
Multiple filter flags are combined as an `OR` filter. For example,
`-f type=custom -f type=builtin` returns both `custom` and `builtin` networks.

The currently supported filters are:

* driver
* id (network's id)
* label (`label=<key>` or `label=<key>=<value>`)
* name (network's name)
* type (custom|builtin)

#### Driver

The `driver` filter matches networks based on their driver.

The following example matches networks with the `bridge` driver:

```bash
$ docker network ls --filter driver=bridge
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER            SCOPE
db9db329f835        test1               bridge            local
f6e212da9dfd        test2               bridge            local
```

#### ID

The `id` filter matches on all or part of a network's ID.

The following filter matches all networks with an ID containing the
`63d1ff1f77b0...` string.

```bash
$ docker network ls --filter id=63d1ff1f77b07ca51070a8c227e962238358bd310bde1529cf62e6c307ade161
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER           SCOPE
63d1ff1f77b0        dev                 bridge           local
```

You can also filter for a substring in an ID as this shows:

```bash
$ docker network ls --filter id=95e74588f40d
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER          SCOPE
95e74588f40d        foo                 bridge          local

$ docker network ls --filter id=95e
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER          SCOPE
95e74588f40d        foo                 bridge          local
```

#### Label

The `label` filter matches networks based on the presence of a `label` alone or a `label` and a
value.

The following filter matches networks with the `usage` label regardless of its value.

```bash
$ docker network ls -f "label=usage"
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER         SCOPE
db9db329f835        test1               bridge         local
f6e212da9dfd        test2               bridge         local
```

The following filter matches networks with the `usage` label with the `prod` value.

```bash
$ docker network ls -f "label=usage=prod"
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER        SCOPE
f6e212da9dfd        test2               bridge        local
```

#### Name

The `name` filter matches on all or part of a network's name.

The following filter matches all networks with a name containing the `foobar` string.

```bash
$ docker network ls --filter name=foobar
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER       SCOPE
06e7eef0a170        foobar              bridge       local
```

You can also filter for a substring in a name as this shows:

```bash
$ docker network ls --filter name=foo
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER       SCOPE
95e74588f40d        foo                 bridge       local
06e7eef0a170        foobar              bridge       local
```

#### Type

The `type` filter supports two values; `builtin` displays predefined networks
(`bridge`, `none`, `host`), whereas `custom` displays user defined networks.

The following filter matches all user defined networks:

```bash
$ docker network ls --filter type=custom
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER       SCOPE
95e74588f40d        foo                 bridge       local  
63d1ff1f77b0        dev                 bridge       local
```

By having this flag it allows for batch cleanup. For example, use this filter
to delete all user defined networks:

```bash
$ docker network rm `docker network ls --filter type=custom -q`
```

A warning will be issued when trying to remove a network that has containers
attached.

## Formatting

The formatting options (`--format`) pretty-prints networks output
using a Go template.

Valid placeholders for the Go template are listed below:

Placeholder | Description
------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
`.ID`       | Network ID
`.Name`     | Network name
`.Driver`   | Network driver
`.Scope`    | Network scope (local, global)
`.IPv6`     | Whether IPv6 is enabled on the network or not.
`.Internal` | Whether the network is internal or not.
`.Labels`   | All labels assigned to the network.
`.Label`    | Value of a specific label for this network. For example `{{.Label "project.version"}}`

When using the `--format` option, the `network ls` command will either
output the data exactly as the template declares or, when using the
`table` directive, includes column headers as well.

The following example uses a template without headers and outputs the
`ID` and `Driver` entries separated by a colon for all networks:

```bash
$ docker network ls --format "{{.ID}}: {{.Driver}}"
afaaab448eb2: bridge
d1584f8dc718: host
391df270dc66: null
```

## Related information

* [network disconnect ](network_disconnect.md)
* [network connect](network_connect.md)
* [network create](network_create.md)
* [network inspect](network_inspect.md)
* [network rm](network_rm.md)
* [network prune](network_prune.md)
* [Understand Docker container networks](https://docs.docker.com/engine/userguide/networking/)

Commit message:

Add `.CreatedAt` placeholder for `docker network ls --format`
This fix tries to add a placeholder `.CreatedAt` for Go
format template in `docker network ls --format`.

While working on 29226, I noticed that it is not possible to
display network's creation time in `docker network ls`, with or
without `--format`.

We are able to find the timestamp through `docker network inspect` though.

However, as we allows networks to be pruned based on the timestamp
(see 29226), showing the timestamp in `docker network ls --format`
would be much useful now.

This fix adds the `.CreatedAt` placeholder for `docker network ls --format`.
The default output was not changed for `docker network ls --format`.

A test case for unit tests has been added.

Signed-off-by: Yong Tang <yong.tang.github@outlook.com>

docs/reference/commandline/network_ls.md, after:

---
title: "network ls"
description: "The network ls command description and usage"
keywords: "network, list, user-defined"
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/docker Github
     repository at https://github.com/docker/docker/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->

# docker network ls

```markdown
Usage:  docker network ls [OPTIONS]

List networks

Aliases:
  ls, list

Options:
  -f, --filter filter   Provide filter values (e.g. 'driver=bridge')
      --format string   Pretty-print networks using a Go template
      --help            Print usage
      --no-trunc        Do not truncate the output
  -q, --quiet           Only display network IDs
```

Lists all the networks the Engine `daemon` knows about. This includes the
networks that span across multiple hosts in a cluster, for example:

```bash
$ sudo docker network ls
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER          SCOPE
7fca4eb8c647        bridge              bridge          local
9f904ee27bf5        none                null            local
cf03ee007fb4        host                host            local
78b03ee04fc4        multi-host          overlay         swarm
```

Use the `--no-trunc` option to display the full network id:

```bash
$ docker network ls --no-trunc
NETWORK ID                                                         NAME                DRIVER           SCOPE
18a2866682b85619a026c81b98a5e375bd33e1b0936a26cc497c283d27bae9b3   none                null             local
c288470c46f6c8949c5f7e5099b5b7947b07eabe8d9a27d79a9cbf111adcbf47   host                host             local
7b369448dccbf865d397c8d2be0cda7cf7edc6b0945f77d2529912ae917a0185   bridge              bridge           local
95e74588f40db048e86320c6526440c504650a1ff3e9f7d60a497c4d2163e5bd   foo                 bridge           local
63d1ff1f77b07ca51070a8c227e962238358bd310bde1529cf62e6c307ade161   dev                 bridge           local
```

## Filtering

The filtering flag (`-f` or `--filter`) format is a `key=value` pair. If there
is more than one filter, then pass multiple flags (e.g. `--filter "foo=bar" --filter "bif=baz"`).
Multiple filter flags are combined as an `OR` filter. For example,
`-f type=custom -f type=builtin` returns both `custom` and `builtin` networks.

The currently supported filters are:

* driver
* id (network's id)
* label (`label=<key>` or `label=<key>=<value>`)
* name (network's name)
* type (custom|builtin)

#### Driver

The `driver` filter matches networks based on their driver.

The following example matches networks with the `bridge` driver:

```bash
$ docker network ls --filter driver=bridge
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER            SCOPE
db9db329f835        test1               bridge            local
f6e212da9dfd        test2               bridge            local
```

#### ID

The `id` filter matches on all or part of a network's ID.

The following filter matches all networks with an ID containing the
`63d1ff1f77b0...` string.

```bash
$ docker network ls --filter id=63d1ff1f77b07ca51070a8c227e962238358bd310bde1529cf62e6c307ade161
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER           SCOPE
63d1ff1f77b0        dev                 bridge           local
```

You can also filter for a substring in an ID as this shows:

```bash
$ docker network ls --filter id=95e74588f40d
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER          SCOPE
95e74588f40d        foo                 bridge          local

$ docker network ls --filter id=95e
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER          SCOPE
95e74588f40d        foo                 bridge          local
```

#### Label

The `label` filter matches networks based on the presence of a `label` alone or a `label` and a
value.

The following filter matches networks with the `usage` label regardless of its value.

```bash
$ docker network ls -f "label=usage"
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER         SCOPE
db9db329f835        test1               bridge         local
f6e212da9dfd        test2               bridge         local
```

The following filter matches networks with the `usage` label with the `prod` value.

```bash
$ docker network ls -f "label=usage=prod"
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER        SCOPE
f6e212da9dfd        test2               bridge        local
```

#### Name

The `name` filter matches on all or part of a network's name.

The following filter matches all networks with a name containing the `foobar` string.

```bash
$ docker network ls --filter name=foobar
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER       SCOPE
06e7eef0a170        foobar              bridge       local
```

You can also filter for a substring in a name as this shows:

```bash
$ docker network ls --filter name=foo
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER       SCOPE
95e74588f40d        foo                 bridge       local
06e7eef0a170        foobar              bridge       local
```

#### Type

The `type` filter supports two values; `builtin` displays predefined networks
(`bridge`, `none`, `host`), whereas `custom` displays user defined networks.

The following filter matches all user defined networks:

```bash
$ docker network ls --filter type=custom
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER       SCOPE
95e74588f40d        foo                 bridge       local  
63d1ff1f77b0        dev                 bridge       local
```

By having this flag it allows for batch cleanup. For example, use this filter
to delete all user defined networks:

```bash
$ docker network rm `docker network ls --filter type=custom -q`
```

A warning will be issued when trying to remove a network that has containers
attached.

## Formatting

The formatting options (`--format`) pretty-prints networks output
using a Go template.

Valid placeholders for the Go template are listed below:

Placeholder  | Description
-------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
`.ID`        | Network ID
`.Name`      | Network name
`.Driver`    | Network driver
`.Scope`     | Network scope (local, global)
`.IPv6`      | Whether IPv6 is enabled on the network or not.
`.Internal`  | Whether the network is internal or not.
`.Labels`    | All labels assigned to the network.
`.Label`     | Value of a specific label for this network. For example `{{.Label "project.version"}}`
`.CreatedAt` | Time when the network was created

When using the `--format` option, the `network ls` command will either
output the data exactly as the template declares or, when using the
`table` directive, includes column headers as well.

The following example uses a template without headers and outputs the
`ID` and `Driver` entries separated by a colon for all networks:

```bash
$ docker network ls --format "{{.ID}}: {{.Driver}}"
afaaab448eb2: bridge
d1584f8dc718: host
391df270dc66: null
```

## Related information

* [network disconnect ](network_disconnect.md)
* [network connect](network_connect.md)
* [network create](network_create.md)
* [network inspect](network_inspect.md)
* [network rm](network_rm.md)
* [network prune](network_prune.md)
* [Understand Docker container networks](https://docs.docker.com/engine/userguide/networking/)
