docs/reference/commandline/plugin_set.md, before:

---
title: "plugin set"
description: "the plugin set command description and usage"
keywords: "plugin, set"
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/docker Github
     repository at https://github.com/docker/docker/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->

# plugin set

```markdown
Usage:  docker plugin set PLUGIN KEY=VALUE [KEY=VALUE...]

Change settings for a plugin

Options:
      --help                    Print usage
```

Change settings for a plugin. The plugin must be disabled.

The settings currently supported are:
 * env variables
 * source of mounts
 * path of devices
 * args

The following example change the env variable `DEBUG` on the
`sample-volume-plugin` plugin.

```bash
$ docker plugin inspect -f {{.Settings.Env}} tiborvass/sample-volume-plugin
[DEBUG=0]

$ docker plugin set tiborvass/sample-volume-plugin DEBUG=1

$ docker plugin inspect -f {{.Settings.Env}} tiborvass/sample-volume-plugin
[DEBUG=1]
```

The following example change the source of the `mymount` mount on
the `myplugin` plugin.

```bash
$ docker plugin inspect -f '{{with $mount := index .Settings.Mounts 0}}{{$mount.Source}}{{end}}' myplugin
/foo

$ docker plugins set myplugin mymount.source=/bar

$ docker plugin inspect -f '{{with $mount := index .Settings.Mounts 0}}{{$mount.Source}}{{end}}' myplugin
/bar
```

Note: since only `source` is settable in `mymount`, `docker plugins set mymount=/bar myplugin` would work too.

The following example change the path of the `mydevice` device on
the `myplugin` plugin.

```bash
$ docker plugin inspect -f '{{with $device := index .Settings.Devices 0}}{{$device.Path}}{{end}}' myplugin
/dev/foo

$ docker plugins set myplugin mydevice.path=/dev/bar

$ docker plugin inspect -f '{{with $device := index .Settings.Devices 0}}{{$device.Path}}{{end}}' myplugin
/dev/bar
```

Note: since only `path` is settable in `mydevice`, `docker plugins set mydevice=/dev/bar myplugin` would work too.

The following example change the source of the args on the `myplugin` plugin.

```bash
$ docker plugin inspect -f '{{.Settings.Args}}' myplugin
["foo", "bar"]

$ docker plugins set myplugin args="foo bar baz"

$ docker plugin inspect -f '{{.Settings.Args}}' myplugin
["foo", "bar", "baz"]
```

## Related information

* [plugin create](plugin_create.md)
* [plugin disable](plugin_disable.md)
* [plugin enable](plugin_enable.md)
* [plugin inspect](plugin_inspect.md)
* [plugin install](plugin_install.md)
* [plugin ls](plugin_ls.md)
* [plugin push](plugin_push.md)
* [plugin rm](plugin_rm.md)

Commit message:

Standardized formatting of CLI reference commands
Command name should be a H1

Only Description, Examples, and Related Commands should be H2

Changed 'Related information' heading to 'Related commands' since 99% it is only linking commands

Added some examples where relevant

Signed-off-by: Misty Stanley-Jones <misty@docker.com>
(cherry picked from commit 52df69f00d966904ba230dc2e3a0646cc52b7688)

docs/reference/commandline/plugin_set.md, after:

---
title: "plugin set"
description: "the plugin set command description and usage"
keywords: "plugin, set"
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/docker Github
     repository at https://github.com/docker/docker/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->

# plugin set

```markdown
Usage:  docker plugin set PLUGIN KEY=VALUE [KEY=VALUE...]

Change settings for a plugin

Options:
      --help                    Print usage
```

## Description

Change settings for a plugin. The plugin must be disabled.

The settings currently supported are:
 * env variables
 * source of mounts
 * path of devices
 * args

## Examples

### Change an environment variable

The following example change the env variable `DEBUG` on the
`sample-volume-plugin` plugin.

```bash
{% raw %}
$ docker plugin inspect -f {{.Settings.Env}} tiborvass/sample-volume-plugin

[DEBUG=0]

$ docker plugin set tiborvass/sample-volume-plugin DEBUG=1

$ docker plugin inspect -f {{.Settings.Env}} tiborvass/sample-volume-plugin
[DEBUG=1]
{% endraw %}
```

### Change the source of a mount

The following example change the source of the `mymount` mount on
the `myplugin` plugin.

```bash
{% raw %}
$ docker plugin inspect -f '{{with $mount := index .Settings.Mounts 0}}{{$mount.Source}}{{end}}' myplugin
/foo

$ docker plugins set myplugin mymount.source=/bar

$ docker plugin inspect -f '{{with $mount := index .Settings.Mounts 0}}{{$mount.Source}}{{end}}' myplugin
/bar
{% endraw %}
```

> **Note**: Since only `source` is settable in `mymount`,
> `docker plugins set mymount=/bar myplugin` would work too.

### Change a device path

The following example change the path of the `mydevice` device on
the `myplugin` plugin.

```bash
{% raw %}
$ docker plugin inspect -f '{{with $device := index .Settings.Devices 0}}{{$device.Path}}{{end}}' myplugin
/dev/foo

$ docker plugins set myplugin mydevice.path=/dev/bar

$ docker plugin inspect -f '{{with $device := index .Settings.Devices 0}}{{$device.Path}}{{end}}' myplugin
/dev/bar
{% endraw %}
```

> **Note**: Since only `path` is settable in `mydevice`,
> `docker plugins set mydevice=/dev/bar myplugin` would work too.

### Change the source of the arguments

The following example change the source of the args on the `myplugin` plugin.

```bash
{% raw %}
$ docker plugin inspect -f '{{.Settings.Args}}' myplugin
["foo", "bar"]

$ docker plugins set myplugin args="foo bar baz"

$ docker plugin inspect -f '{{.Settings.Args}}' myplugin
["foo", "bar", "baz"]
{% endraw %}
```

## Related commands

* [plugin create](plugin_create.md)
* [plugin disable](plugin_disable.md)
* [plugin enable](plugin_enable.md)
* [plugin inspect](plugin_inspect.md)
* [plugin install](plugin_install.md)
* [plugin ls](plugin_ls.md)
* [plugin push](plugin_push.md)
* [plugin rm](plugin_rm.md)
