docs/reference/commandline/plugin_ls.md, before:

---
title: "plugin ls"
description: "The plugin ls command description and usage"
keywords: "plugin, list"
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/docker Github
     repository at https://github.com/docker/docker/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->

# plugin ls

```markdown
Usage:  docker plugin ls [OPTIONS]

List plugins

Aliases:
  ls, list

Options:
  -f, --filter filter   Provide filter values (e.g. 'enabled=true')
      --format string   Pretty-print plugins using a Go template
      --help            Print usage
      --no-trunc        Don't truncate output
  -q, --quiet           Only display plugin IDs
```

Lists all the plugins that are currently installed. You can install plugins
using the [`docker plugin install`](plugin_install.md) command.
You can also filter using the `-f` or `--filter` flag.
Refer to the [filtering](#filtering) section for more information about available filter options.

Example output:

```bash
$ docker plugin ls

ID                  NAME                             TAG                 DESCRIPTION                ENABLED
69553ca1d123        tiborvass/sample-volume-plugin   latest              A test plugin for Docker   true
```

## Filtering

The filtering flag (`-f` or `--filter`) format is of "key=value". If there is more
than one filter, then pass multiple flags (e.g., `--filter "foo=bar" --filter "bif=baz"`)

The currently supported filters are:

* enabled (boolean - true or false, 0 or 1)
* capability (string - currently `volumedriver`, `networkdriver`, `ipamdriver`, or `authz`)

### enabled

The `enabled` filter matches on plugins enabled or disabled.

### capability

The `capability` filter matches on plugin capabilities. One plugin
might have multiple capabilities. Currently `volumedriver`, `networkdriver`,
`ipamdriver`, and `authz` are supported capabilities.

```bash
$ docker plugin install --disable tiborvass/no-remove
tiborvass/no-remove

$ docker plugin ls --filter enabled=true
NAME                  TAG                 DESCRIPTION                ENABLED
```


## Formatting

The formatting options (`--format`) pretty-prints plugins output
using a Go template.

Valid placeholders for the Go template are listed below:

Placeholder    | Description
---------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
`.ID`          | Plugin ID
`.Name`        | Plugin name
`.Description` | Plugin description
`.Enabled`     | Whether plugin is enabled or not

When using the `--format` option, the `plugin ls` command will either
output the data exactly as the template declares or, when using the
`table` directive, includes column headers as well.

The following example uses a template without headers and outputs the
`ID` and `Name` entries separated by a colon for all plugins:

```bash
$ docker plugin ls --format "{{.ID}}: {{.Name}}"
4be01827a72e: tiborvass/no-remove
```


## Related information

* [plugin create](plugin_create.md)
* [plugin disable](plugin_disable.md)
* [plugin enable](plugin_enable.md)
* [plugin inspect](plugin_inspect.md)
* [plugin install](plugin_install.md)
* [plugin push](plugin_push.md)
* [plugin rm](plugin_rm.md)
* [plugin set](plugin_set.md)

Commit message:

Add docker plugin upgrade
This allows a plugin to be upgraded without requiring to
uninstall/reinstall a plugin.
Since plugin resources (e.g. volumes) are tied to a plugin ID, this is
important to ensure resources aren't lost.

The plugin must be disabled while upgrading (errors out if enabled).
This does not add any convenience flags for automatically
disabling/re-enabling the plugin during before/after upgrade.

Since an upgrade may change requested permissions, the user is required
to accept permissions just like `docker plugin install`.

Signed-off-by: Brian Goff <cpuguy83@gmail.com>

docs/reference/commandline/plugin_ls.md, after:

---
title: "plugin ls"
description: "The plugin ls command description and usage"
keywords: "plugin, list"
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/docker Github
     repository at https://github.com/docker/docker/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->

# plugin ls

```markdown
Usage:  docker plugin ls [OPTIONS]

List plugins

Aliases:
  ls, list

Options:
  -f, --filter filter   Provide filter values (e.g. 'enabled=true')
      --format string   Pretty-print plugins using a Go template
      --help            Print usage
      --no-trunc        Don't truncate output
  -q, --quiet           Only display plugin IDs
```

Lists all the plugins that are currently installed. You can install plugins
using the [`docker plugin install`](plugin_install.md) command.
You can also filter using the `-f` or `--filter` flag.
Refer to the [filtering](#filtering) section for more information about available filter options.

Example output:

```bash
$ docker plugin ls

ID                  NAME                             TAG                 DESCRIPTION                ENABLED
69553ca1d123        tiborvass/sample-volume-plugin   latest              A test plugin for Docker   true
```

## Filtering

The filtering flag (`-f` or `--filter`) format is of "key=value". If there is more
than one filter, then pass multiple flags (e.g., `--filter "foo=bar" --filter "bif=baz"`)

The currently supported filters are:

* enabled (boolean - true or false, 0 or 1)
* capability (string - currently `volumedriver`, `networkdriver`, `ipamdriver`, or `authz`)

### enabled

The `enabled` filter matches on plugins enabled or disabled.

### capability

The `capability` filter matches on plugin capabilities. One plugin
might have multiple capabilities. Currently `volumedriver`, `networkdriver`,
`ipamdriver`, and `authz` are supported capabilities.

```bash
$ docker plugin install --disable tiborvass/no-remove
tiborvass/no-remove

$ docker plugin ls --filter enabled=true
NAME                  TAG                 DESCRIPTION                ENABLED
```


## Formatting

The formatting options (`--format`) pretty-prints plugins output
using a Go template.

Valid placeholders for the Go template are listed below:

Placeholder    | Description
---------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
`.ID`              | Plugin ID
`.Name`            | Plugin name
`.Description`     | Plugin description
`.Enabled`         | Whether plugin is enabled or not
`.PluginReference` | The reference used to push/pull from a registry

When using the `--format` option, the `plugin ls` command will either
output the data exactly as the template declares or, when using the
`table` directive, includes column headers as well.

The following example uses a template without headers and outputs the
`ID` and `Name` entries separated by a colon for all plugins:

```bash
$ docker plugin ls --format "{{.ID}}: {{.Name}}"
4be01827a72e: tiborvass/no-remove
```


## Related information

* [plugin create](plugin_create.md)
* [plugin disable](plugin_disable.md)
* [plugin enable](plugin_enable.md)
* [plugin inspect](plugin_inspect.md)
* [plugin install](plugin_install.md)
* [plugin push](plugin_push.md)
* [plugin rm](plugin_rm.md)
* [plugin set](plugin_set.md)
* [plugin upgrade](plugin_upgrade.md)
