docs/reference/commandline/save.md, before:

---
title: "save"
description: "The save command description and usage"
keywords: "tarred, repository, backup"
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/docker Github
     repository at https://github.com/docker/docker/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->

# save

```markdown
Usage:  docker save [OPTIONS] IMAGE [IMAGE...]

Save one or more images to a tar archive (streamed to STDOUT by default)

Options:
      --help            Print usage
  -o, --output string   Write to a file, instead of STDOUT
```

Produces a tarred repository to the standard output stream.
Contains all parent layers, and all tags + versions, or specified `repo:tag`, for
each argument provided.

It is used to create a backup that can then be used with `docker load`

    $ docker save busybox > busybox.tar
    $ ls -sh busybox.tar
    2.7M busybox.tar
    $ docker save --output busybox.tar busybox
    $ ls -sh busybox.tar
    2.7M busybox.tar
    $ docker save -o fedora-all.tar fedora
    $ docker save -o fedora-latest.tar fedora:latest

It is even useful to cherry-pick particular tags of an image repository

    $ docker save -o ubuntu.tar ubuntu:lucid ubuntu:saucy

Commit message:

update: include a note regarding the image

docs/reference/commandline/save.md, after:

---
title: "save"
description: "The save command description and usage"
keywords: "tarred, repository, backup"
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/docker Github
     repository at https://github.com/docker/docker/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->

# save

```markdown
Usage:  docker save [OPTIONS] IMAGE [IMAGE...]

Save one or more images to a tar archive (streamed to STDOUT by default).
Note: the image must be pulled beforehand.

Options:
      --help            Print usage
  -o, --output string   Write to a file, instead of STDOUT
```

Produces a tarred repository to the standard output stream.
Contains all parent layers, and all tags + versions, or specified `repo:tag`, for
each argument provided.

It is used to create a backup that can then be used with `docker load`

    $ docker save busybox > busybox.tar
    $ ls -sh busybox.tar
    2.7M busybox.tar
    $ docker save --output busybox.tar busybox
    $ ls -sh busybox.tar
    2.7M busybox.tar
    $ docker save -o fedora-all.tar fedora
    $ docker save -o fedora-latest.tar fedora:latest

It is even useful to cherry-pick particular tags of an image repository

    $ docker save -o ubuntu.tar ubuntu:lucid ubuntu:saucy
