docs/reference/commandline/stats.md, before:

<!--[metadata]>
+++
title = "stats"
description = "The stats command description and usage"
keywords = ["container, resource, statistics"]
[menu.main]
parent = "smn_cli"
+++
<![end-metadata]-->

# stats

    Usage: docker stats [OPTIONS] CONTAINER [CONTAINER...]

    Display a live stream of one or more containers' resource usage statistics

      --help=false       Print usage
      --no-stream=false  Disable streaming stats and only pull the first result

Running `docker stats` on multiple containers

    $ docker stats redis1 redis2
    CONTAINER           CPU %               MEM USAGE / LIMIT     MEM %               NET I/O             BLOCK I/O
    redis1              0.07%               796 KB / 64 MB        1.21%               788 B / 648 B       3.568 MB / 512 KB
    redis2              0.07%               2.746 MB / 64 MB      4.29%               1.266 KB / 648 B    12.4 MB / 0 B


The `docker stats` command will only return a live stream of data for running
containers. Stopped containers will not return any data.

> **Note:**
> If you want more detailed information about a container's resource
> usage, use the API endpoint.

Commit message:

Allow docker stats without arguments
This patch adds the ability to run `docker stats` w/o arguments and get
statistics for all running containers by default. Also add a new
`--all` flag to list statistics for all containers (like `docker ps`).
New running containers are added to the list as they show up also.
Add integration tests for this new behavior.
Docs updated accordingly. Fix missing stuff in man/commandline
reference for `docker stats`.

Signed-off-by: Antonio Murdaca <runcom@redhat.com>

docs/reference/commandline/stats.md, after:

<!--[metadata]>
+++
title = "stats"
description = "The stats command description and usage"
keywords = ["container, resource, statistics"]
[menu.main]
parent = "smn_cli"
+++
<![end-metadata]-->

# stats

    Usage: docker stats [OPTIONS] [CONTAINER...]

    Display a live stream of one or more containers' resource usage statistics

      -a, --all=false    Show all containers (default shows just running)
      --help=false       Print usage
      --no-stream=false  Disable streaming stats and only pull the first result

The `docker stats` command returns a live data stream for running containers. To limit data to one or more specific containers, specify a list of container names or ids separated by a space. You can specify a stopped container but stopped containers do not return any data.

If you want more detailed information about a container's resource usage, use the `/containers/(id)/stats` API endpoint. 

## Examples

Running `docker stats` on all running containers

    $ docker stats
    CONTAINER           CPU %               MEM USAGE / LIMIT     MEM %               NET I/O             BLOCK I/O
    redis1              0.07%               796 KB / 64 MB        1.21%               788 B / 648 B       3.568 MB / 512 KB
    redis2              0.07%               2.746 MB / 64 MB      4.29%               1.266 KB / 648 B    12.4 MB / 0 B
    nginx1              0.03%               4.583 MB / 64 MB      6.30%               2.854 KB / 648 B    27.7 MB / 0 B

Running `docker stats` on multiple containers by name and id.

    $ docker stats fervent_panini 5acfcb1b4fd1
    CONTAINER           CPU %               MEM USAGE/LIMIT     MEM %               NET I/O
    5acfcb1b4fd1        0.00%               115.2 MB/1.045 GB   11.03%              1.422 kB/648 B
    fervent_panini      0.02%               11.08 MB/1.045 GB   1.06%               648 B/648 B
