docs/reference/commandline/swarm_join.md, before:

---
title: "swarm join"
description: "The swarm join command description and usage"
keywords: "swarm, join"
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/docker Github
     repository at https://github.com/docker/docker/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->

# swarm join

```markdown
Usage:  docker swarm join [OPTIONS] HOST:PORT

Join a swarm as a node and/or manager

Options:
      --advertise-addr string   Advertised address (format: <ip|interface>[:port])
      --help                    Print usage
      --listen-addr node-addr   Listen address (format: <ip|interface>[:port]) (default 0.0.0.0:2377)
      --token string            Token for entry into the swarm
```

Join a node to a swarm. The node joins as a manager node or worker node based upon the token you
pass with the `--token` flag. If you pass a manager token, the node joins as a manager. If you
pass a worker token, the node joins as a worker.

### Join a node to swarm as a manager

The example below demonstrates joining a manager node using a manager token.

```bash
$ docker swarm join --token SWMTKN-1-3pu6hszjas19xyp7ghgosyx9k8atbfcr8p2is99znpy26u2lkl-7p73s1dx5in4tatdymyhg9hu2 192.168.99.121:2377
This node joined a swarm as a manager.
$ docker node ls
ID                           HOSTNAME  STATUS  AVAILABILITY  MANAGER STATUS
dkp8vy1dq1kxleu9g4u78tlag *  manager2  Ready   Active        Reachable
dvfxp4zseq4s0rih1selh0d20    manager1  Ready   Active        Leader
```

A cluster should only have 3-7 managers at most, because a majority of managers must be available
for the cluster to function. Nodes that aren't meant to participate in this management quorum
should join as workers instead. Managers should be stable hosts that have static IP addresses.

### Join a node to swarm as a worker

The example below demonstrates joining a worker node using a worker token.

```bash
$ docker swarm join --token SWMTKN-1-3pu6hszjas19xyp7ghgosyx9k8atbfcr8p2is99znpy26u2lkl-1awxwuwd3z9j1z3puu7rcgdbx 192.168.99.121:2377
This node joined a swarm as a worker.
$ docker node ls
ID                           HOSTNAME  STATUS  AVAILABILITY  MANAGER STATUS
7ln70fl22uw2dvjn2ft53m3q5    worker2   Ready   Active
dkp8vy1dq1kxleu9g4u78tlag    worker1   Ready   Active        Reachable
dvfxp4zseq4s0rih1selh0d20 *  manager1  Ready   Active        Leader
```

### `--listen-addr value`

If the node is a manager, it will listen for inbound swarm manager traffic on this
address. The default is to listen on 0.0.0.0:2377. It is also possible to specify a
network interface to listen on that interface's address; for example `--listen-addr eth0:2377`.

Specifying a port is optional. If the value is a bare IP address, or interface
name, the default port 2377 will be used.

This flag is generally not necessary when joining an existing swarm.

### `--advertise-addr value`

This flag specifies the address that will be advertised to other members of the
swarm for API access. If unspecified, Docker will check if the system has a
single IP address, and use that IP address with the listening port (see
`--listen-addr`). If the system has multiple IP addresses, `--advertise-addr`
must be specified so that the correct address is chosen for inter-manager
communication and overlay networking.

It is also possible to specify a network interface to advertise that interface's address;
for example `--advertise-addr eth0:2377`.

Specifying a port is optional. If the value is a bare IP address, or interface
name, the default port 2377 will be used.

This flag is generally not necessary when joining an existing swarm.

### `--token string`

Secret value required for nodes to join the swarm


## Related information

* [swarm init](swarm_init.md)
* [swarm join-token](swarm_join_token.md)
* [swarm leave](swarm_leave.md)
* [swarm unlock](swarm_unlock.md)
* [swarm unlock-key](swarm_unlock_key.md)
* [swarm update](swarm_update.md)

Commit message:

Allow swarm join with `--availability=drain` This fix tries to address the issue raised in 24596 where it was not possible to join as manager only (`--availability=drain`).
This fix adds a new flag `--availability` to `swarm join`.

Related documentation has been updated.

An integration test has been added.

NOTE: Additional pull request for swarmkit and engine-api will
be created separately.

This fix fixes 24596.

Signed-off-by: Yong Tang <yong.tang.github@outlook.com>

docs/reference/commandline/swarm_join.md, after:

---
title: "swarm join"
description: "The swarm join command description and usage"
keywords: "swarm, join"
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/docker Github
     repository at https://github.com/docker/docker/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->

# swarm join

```markdown
Usage:  docker swarm join [OPTIONS] HOST:PORT

Join a swarm as a node and/or manager

Options:
      --advertise-addr string   Advertised address (format: <ip|interface>[:port])
      --availability string     Availability of the node (active/pause/drain) (default "active")
      --help                    Print usage
      --listen-addr node-addr   Listen address (format: <ip|interface>[:port]) (default 0.0.0.0:2377)
      --token string            Token for entry into the swarm
```

Join a node to a swarm. The node joins as a manager node or worker node based upon the token you
pass with the `--token` flag. If you pass a manager token, the node joins as a manager. If you
pass a worker token, the node joins as a worker.

### Join a node to swarm as a manager

The example below demonstrates joining a manager node using a manager token.

```bash
$ docker swarm join --token SWMTKN-1-3pu6hszjas19xyp7ghgosyx9k8atbfcr8p2is99znpy26u2lkl-7p73s1dx5in4tatdymyhg9hu2 192.168.99.121:2377
This node joined a swarm as a manager.
$ docker node ls
ID                           HOSTNAME  STATUS  AVAILABILITY  MANAGER STATUS
dkp8vy1dq1kxleu9g4u78tlag *  manager2  Ready   Active        Reachable
dvfxp4zseq4s0rih1selh0d20    manager1  Ready   Active        Leader
```

A cluster should only have 3-7 managers at most, because a majority of managers must be available
for the cluster to function. Nodes that aren't meant to participate in this management quorum
should join as workers instead. Managers should be stable hosts that have static IP addresses.

### Join a node to swarm as a worker

The example below demonstrates joining a worker node using a worker token.

```bash
$ docker swarm join --token SWMTKN-1-3pu6hszjas19xyp7ghgosyx9k8atbfcr8p2is99znpy26u2lkl-1awxwuwd3z9j1z3puu7rcgdbx 192.168.99.121:2377
This node joined a swarm as a worker.
$ docker node ls
ID                           HOSTNAME  STATUS  AVAILABILITY  MANAGER STATUS
7ln70fl22uw2dvjn2ft53m3q5    worker2   Ready   Active
dkp8vy1dq1kxleu9g4u78tlag    worker1   Ready   Active        Reachable
dvfxp4zseq4s0rih1selh0d20 *  manager1  Ready   Active        Leader
```

### `--listen-addr value`

If the node is a manager, it will listen for inbound swarm manager traffic on this
address. The default is to listen on 0.0.0.0:2377. It is also possible to specify a
network interface to listen on that interface's address; for example `--listen-addr eth0:2377`.

Specifying a port is optional. If the value is a bare IP address, or interface
name, the default port 2377 will be used.

This flag is generally not necessary when joining an existing swarm.

### `--advertise-addr value`

This flag specifies the address that will be advertised to other members of the
swarm for API access. If unspecified, Docker will check if the system has a
single IP address, and use that IP address with the listening port (see
`--listen-addr`). If the system has multiple IP addresses, `--advertise-addr`
must be specified so that the correct address is chosen for inter-manager
communication and overlay networking.

It is also possible to specify a network interface to advertise that interface's address;
for example `--advertise-addr eth0:2377`.

Specifying a port is optional. If the value is a bare IP address, or interface
name, the default port 2377 will be used.

This flag is generally not necessary when joining an existing swarm.

### `--token string`

Secret value required for nodes to join the swarm

### `--availability`

This flag specifies the availability of the node at the time the node joins a master.
Possible availability values are `active`, `pause`, or `drain`.

This flag is useful in certain situations. For example, a cluster may want to have
dedicated manager nodes that are not served as worker nodes. This could be achieved
by passing `--availability=drain` to `docker swarm join`.


## Related information

* [swarm init](swarm_init.md)
* [swarm join-token](swarm_join_token.md)
* [swarm leave](swarm_leave.md)
* [swarm unlock](swarm_unlock.md)
* [swarm unlock-key](swarm_unlock_key.md)
* [swarm update](swarm_update.md)
