docs/reference/commandline/volume_prune.md, before:

---
title: "volume prune"
description: "Remove unused volumes"
keywords: "volume, prune, delete"
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/docker Github
     repository at https://github.com/docker/docker/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->

# volume prune

```markdown
Usage:	docker volume prune [OPTIONS]

Remove all unused volumes

Options:
  -f, --force   Do not prompt for confirmation
      --help    Print usage
```

## Description

Remove all unused volumes. Unused volumes are those which are not referenced by any containers

## Examples

```bash
$ docker volume prune

WARNING! This will remove all volumes not used by at least one container.
Are you sure you want to continue? [y/N] y
Deleted Volumes:
07c7bdf3e34ab76d921894c2b834f073721fccfbbcba792aa7648e3a7a664c2e
my-named-vol

Total reclaimed space: 36 B
```

## Related commands

* [volume create](volume_create.md)
* [volume ls](volume_ls.md)
* [volume inspect](volume_inspect.md)
* [volume rm](volume_rm.md)
* [Understand Data Volumes](https://docs.docker.com/engine/tutorials/dockervolumes/)
* [system df](system_df.md)
* [container prune](container_prune.md)
* [image prune](image_prune.md)
* [network prune](network_prune.md)
* [system prune](system_prune.md)

Commit message:

Update docs of `label` filter for `docker system prune`
This fix updates docs of `label` filter for `docker system prune`.

This fix is related to #30740 and #29999, and specifically to comment
https://github.com/docker/docker/pull/30740#issuecomment-293012957.

Signed-off-by: Yong Tang <yong.tang.github@outlook.com>

docs/reference/commandline/volume_prune.md, after:

---
title: "volume prune"
description: "Remove unused volumes"
keywords: "volume, prune, delete"
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/docker Github
     repository at https://github.com/docker/docker/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->

# volume prune

```markdown
Usage:	docker volume prune [OPTIONS]

Remove all unused volumes

Options:
      --filter filter   Provide filter values (e.g. 'label=<label>')
  -f, --force           Do not prompt for confirmation
      --help            Print usage
```

## Description

Remove all unused volumes. Unused volumes are those which are not referenced by any containers

## Examples

```bash
$ docker volume prune

WARNING! This will remove all volumes not used by at least one container.
Are you sure you want to continue? [y/N] y
Deleted Volumes:
07c7bdf3e34ab76d921894c2b834f073721fccfbbcba792aa7648e3a7a664c2e
my-named-vol

Total reclaimed space: 36 B
```

## Filtering

The filtering flag (`-f` or `--filter`) format is of "key=value". If there is more
than one filter, then pass multiple flags (e.g., `--filter "foo=bar" --filter "bif=baz"`)

The currently supported filters are:

* label (`label=<key>`, `label=<key>=<value>`, `label!=<key>`, or `label!=<key>=<value>`) - only remove volumes with (or without, in case `label!=...` is used) the specified labels.

The `label` filter accepts two formats. One is the `label=...` (`label=<key>` or `label=<key>=<value>`),
which removes volumes with the specified labels. The other
format is the `label!=...` (`label!=<key>` or `label!=<key>=<value>`), which removes
volumes without the specified labels.


## Related commands

* [volume create](volume_create.md)
* [volume ls](volume_ls.md)
* [volume inspect](volume_inspect.md)
* [volume rm](volume_rm.md)
* [Understand Data Volumes](https://docs.docker.com/engine/tutorials/dockervolumes/)
* [system df](system_df.md)
* [container prune](container_prune.md)
* [image prune](image_prune.md)
* [network prune](network_prune.md)
* [system prune](system_prune.md)
