.\" Process this file with
.\" nroff -man -Tascii docker-rm.1
.\"
.TH "DOCKER" "1" "MARCH 2014" "0.1" "Docker"
.SH NAME
docker-rm \- Remove one or more containers.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B docker rm 
[\fB-f\fR|\fB--force\fR[=\fIfalse\fR] 
[\fB-l\fR|\fB--link\fR[=\fIfalse\fR] 
[\fB-v\fR|\fB--volumes\fR[=\fIfalse\fR] 
CONTAINER [CONTAINER...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This will remove one or more containers from the host node. The container name or ID can be used. This does not remove images. You cannot remove a running container unless you use the \fB-f\fR option. To see all containers on a host use the \fBdocker ps -a\fR command.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B -f, --force=\fItrue\fR|\fIfalse\fR: 
When set to true, force the removal of the container. The default is \fIfalse\fR.
.TP
.B -l, --link=\fItrue\fR|\fIfalse\fR: 
When set to true, remove the specified link and not the underlying container. The default is \fIfalse\fR.
.TP
.B -v, --volumes=\fItrue\fR|\fIfalse\fR: 
When set to true, remove the volumes associated to the container. The default is \fIfalse\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.PP
.B Removing a container using its ID
.TP
To remove a container using its ID, find either from a \fBdocker ps -a\fR command, or use the ID returned from the \fBdocker run\fR command, or retrieve it from a file used to store it using the \fBdocker run --cidfile\fR:
.sp
.RS
docker rm abebf7571666
.RE
.sp
.B Removing a container using the container name:
.TP
The name of the container can be found using the \fBdocker ps -a\fR command. The use that name as follows:
.sp
.RS
docker rm hopeful_morse
.RE
.sp
.SH HISTORY
March 2014, Originally compiled by William Henry (whenry at redhat dot com) based on dockier.io source material and internal work.
